Hi there.
This is Lou.
And welcome back.
Now it's time to learn about enemies which were introduced in Java file.
You may recall the constant exporting classes which we created in our project, and these classes were
exporting compile time constants.
For instance, there was the book genre class which exported genres such as biography, fiction and
so on as constants.
Similarly, we also had other classes like movie genre, gender, user type and so on.
So these constant exporting classes were created in order to group together a set of constants like
genre specific to books and genre specific to movies.
But there are some severe deficiencies in creating such classes, and that's where idioms come into
play.
So let's see what those deficiencies are.
And then we will wear the language designers hat and we will see how we can address those deficiencies.
So we are going to think like a language designer.
We will also introduce idioms and get into some of its details.
All the demo will be part of the following lecture.
Let's consider this classical genre, which is a constant exporting class, and it is defining two groups
of constants.
First group is about movie genre, while second is about book genre.
We don't have to instantiate such a constant exporting class, which has only constants.
So we have a private constructor to prevent instantiation.
Now this kind of a pattern that exports only INT constants is referred to as int in a pattern.
And prior to Java PHI, this was the standard pattern for exporting constants.
And we also followed this pattern in our project.
And as mentioned earlier, it has several deficiencies.
First efficiency is about lack of type safety.
For instance, let's consider this class itself and let's say that there is also a method which is expecting
movie underscore genre, underscore horror as input.
So the method would have a variable of type end and it would be expecting that the client code would
pass a value of zero as zero is the value for movie underscore genre underscore horror.
However, the client code by mistake might pass a book, underscore genre, underscore horror.
So instead of movie, underscore genre, underscore horror, book, underscore genre, underscore horror
is getting passed, which has a value of 11 and not zero.
So type safety is lost and it may result in some serious error.
Next deficiency is that core is brittle.
Here these constants are compile time constants.
So wherever they are used in the client code, their values get copied.
Right?
We know that the values get hardwired, but if any of these values get changed here, then they will
not be reflected in the client code unless the client code is recompiled.
So if the client code is not recompiled, then it would be using outdated values.
And that's not good.
Third deficiency is that there is no namespace protection.
For instance, here, in order to distinguish horror genre in movie and book, we are using prefixes
such as movie underscore genre and book underscore genre, which is kind of clumsy.
Next, if you want to print the name of a particular content like, say, a movie, underscore genre,
underscore horror, then that would not be easy to do.
Similarly, if we want to iterate over the constants in a particular group or obtain a particular group
size like the number of genres within the movie domain, then it may not be easily possible.
We would have to write some ugly reflection code.
So to fix the deficiencies we just saw, let's wear a language designer's hat and think hard.
So instead of having all constants in one class genre, we can maintain separate, constant exporting
classes movie genre and book genre, which is what we did in our project.
With that, we can have nicer variable names like horror.
While this takes care of the namespace problem, it does not address the type safety issue.
For instance, book genre or horror might still be past very movie genre or horror is expected.
So we need something better.
Now one observation we can make is that each constant is simply a type of genre.
For instance, horror in book genre is simply a type of book genre.
That is, it can be an instance of book genre.
Right.
But with horror, as its state and state is represented by some variable.
Similarly, biography is also a type of book genre.
So instead of representing these constants as primitives, we can represent them as instances of book
genre.
And here is how it is done.
We still have the donor class, but the constants, biography and horror are no longer end constants
but are object references of type, book genre and their status captured through the variables.
Name and ordinal name is the name of the genre, while Ordinal is the position of that constant within
the group of constants defined in the class.
So for biography, name is biography, while the ordinal is zero.
For horror, name is horror while ordinal is one.
With this kind of a design, we can no longer assign a book genre to a movie genre.
So no issue of type safety anymore.
Core is also not brittle as we don't have compile time constants anymore.
Now, the only problem with this design is that writing such a constant exporting class is cumbersome.
All right.
It looks complicated.
So language designers wanted to make it simpler.
So in Java five they came up with enemas which have a simpler representation.
So we can represent our book ray class as an enum in this way, which as you can see, is much more
readable.
It has a reserved keyword enum followed by enum name, which is then followed by the body of enum,
which starts and ends with curly braces, just like in the case of a class or an interface.
And within the body we have the constants which are comma separated.
The constants are constants and book genre is the enum type.
So the language designers made it simple, but upon completion, this enum would be translated into
a regular class.
So in the byte code we just have this, which is almost identical to the book genre class, which we
saw in the previous slide.
The class is final, implying that an enum is not extendable, so we cannot add any new enum constants
by subclass in the enum.
The constructor is also private as before and so enum is non intangible.
And the important thing here is that this translator class extends a class called Enum, which is from
Java Lang package.
And the class enum includes methods which can be invoked on an enum constant.
In the next lecture, we will explore the enum class and its methods through a demo.
You can also notice the two static methods that the compiler has inserted.
These were not there in our class definition from the previous slide.
The values method returns an array of enum constants in the order in which they are declared.
And this would be helpful in iterating over the constants or finding the number of constants declared
as mentioned at the beginning of this lecture.
It would not be very easy to iterate over the constants if we use the enum pattern.
And the value of method here would return a particular enum constant given its name.
So we can see that the return type here is the enum type.
So as we can see, an enum has a very simple representation and it is also powerful as it addresses
the deficiencies in the INT enum pattern.
And an enum can also be more sophisticated as we will see later, which will make it even more powerful.
And here is an example of a method where the variable John Ray is off book, John Ray type, and here
is how this method can be invoked.
The argument for John Ray is the enum constant book.
John Ray Hodder.
Once again, this gives us the benefit of compile time type safety as only constants that are defined
within book genre can be passed as arguments here.
So it is essentially a class which defines a fixed set of constants.
So just keep that in mind.
It is simply a class.
And the constants are full blown objects.
That is, there are instances of enum type.
And since they are constants, they are static and final.
And so we have the same naming conventions as regular constants.
That is all caps with underscores.
Item confidence are also referred to as elements of the type or members of the type are enumerators
of the type.
Note that JVM loads an enum when it is used for the very first time.
Finally, here is a very comprehensive, effective item on enemies.
It says Use enemies instead of end constants, which is what we discussed in this lecture.
The deficiencies of the enum pattern and how enemies address them are also discussed in this item.
It also discusses several other details and we will look at some of them in this chapter.
So just to summarize, enum type or enumerated type is simply a class that defines a fixed set of constants.
It has a simple representation and it addresses the deficiencies in int enum pattern.
Thank you.